From Hanselman it's dot
com. It's Hansel minutes, weekly
discussion with web developer and
technologists. Scott Hanselman hosted by
Carl Franklin. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number 66. Courted Thursday,
May 24th, 2007. Support for Hansel minutes
is provided by Tellerik already
controls the most comprehensive suite
of components for windows forms
and asp.net web applications. online@wwwdottlerik.com.
Support is also provided by
slash end software red carpet
subscriptions. The most comprehensive solution
for adding connectivity to your.net
and asp.net applications with components
for every major internet protocol
online@wwwdotnsoftwaredotcomandby.net developers journal the world's
leading dotnet developer magazine online
at www dot  dot
com. In this episode, Scott
and Kroll discussed home networking.
Hi, this is Carl Franklin and
you're listening to Hansel minutes
from Hanselman it's dot com
here with Scott Hanselman back
at the wheel. How are
you, sir? We're back at
the wheel. We are, we
had a little bit of
a week off there. I
enjoyed it. Yeah. I went
over to a rails conference.
Yeah. Got it. Great interview
there. Yeah, it was pretty
cool last week. So we
weren't going to talk about
home networking. So when it
emailed and said that they
wanted to set up a
home network, I'm in no
way, a home networking expert,
but you know, I do
have opinions and I'm sure
that you have opinions. So
in this particular episode, probably
the real information will come
from those who decide to
respond, visit the comments page,
visit my blog, and we
can talk about what you've
done to set up home
Networking. I know you're not
talking to me right now,
but I'm with you. I'm
probably even less than you.
I have an old wireless
network when there's gigabit and
all that. I'm not, not
at all home network heaven,
Right? Well, yeah, when you're
putting together a home network,
it's about deciding what it
is you need to accomplish
for my dad, the default
router, the default, you know,
the, he could basically got
an all in one box
from the cable company, right?
So it's basically a router,
a bridge and a hub
and a wireless broadcast are
all in one. Right. So,
you know, so it, it
handles the transit transition between
the co-ax the cable that
comes in the 75 home
co-ax that comes in off
the street. Turns that into
ether, net, RJ 45, it's
got four ports on it.
So it's a hub. The
ports are independently have independent
speeds. So it's a switch.
And then it's got a
wireless gee, is it 54?
Alright. Yeah. G is 54
and that just works. Right?
So his main machine is
plugged into that and he's
got wireless the rest of
the house and it works
just fine. Cause all he's
really trying to do is
share the internet with a
few laptops and, and print.
That's pretty much all I
have. Yeah. And that's fine
for, for most folks, you
know, in that instance, you
might take a look at
the podcast that we did
on alternative lynxes firmware. The
firmware is getting better and
better. I think that the
actually the open source community
is pushing the, the competition
to pushing the competition and
the actual commercial competition to
make their stuff better links.
This is firmware got better
and better as peoples are
pushing it. So they started
saying, Oh, I guess people
do want this. They do
want, you know, a detailed
management of the universal plug
and play. They do want
a VPN backend. They want
quality of service. So they
started putting those features back
in. But yeah, take a
look at that podcast about
alternative firmware. I've turned a
number of people onto that
who were not necessarily very
technical, but they were able
to download the binary, flash
their firmware, and then make
some simple changes, like quality
of service to make their
voice over IP better. So,
you know, you're kind of
your first decision is what
do I need? So you
know, how many devices do
you have if you've got
a couple of machines and
you're just surfing the net,
maybe sharing a file or
to a wireless router is
going to be the way
to go. But if you're
gonna have a lot of
machines and, or a lot
of actually, I wouldn't say
machines now, I would say
devices, you have to ask
yourself how much management do
I want of these for
me? I didn't realize how
many things in my house
had an IP address until
I'd actually kind of went
and cataloged them. All right.
So I've got, I got
a Mac at my PC,
get my wife's PC. That's
pretty straightforward, pretty common. You
know, my wife has P
you know, your PC, your
kid's PC, I've got two
replay TVs, which are basically
a DVR, like a TiVo,
except they have an ethernet
cable. So what does that,
let me see why SPC
my PC Mac to replace
it's five. I've got my
Xbox right. X plus three
60. Right. I got my
wi which has a built
in wireless. Yep. Do you,
what do you need the
wireless for the weed? Is
it connect to the internet?
The internet every evening, But
the, we also has runs
opera the alternative browser, so
I can browse the web
on my big 42 inch
screen. Huh. So I used
the we to browse from,
from within the, you know,
sometimes there are, there's a
program called MCE browser, I
think from kind of Anthony Park,
where you can use, you
can basically launch your Xbox
three 60, go back over
to your media center, PC,
and then browse from there.
But I ended up using
the, we, it's very simple.
It's tiny. And I B
I just browse that way.
It uses opera and it
looks very nice. Okay. It's
got great font scaling, so
you can do it on
a big screen and not
too much about it. So
anyway, I ended up with,
Oh, I've also got a
universal plug and play a
MP three player. It's like
a little, little appliance that
sits on your receiver that
lets you stream music from
your collection. Like the, the
little, the little iTunes brick
that you can plug into
the wall and it will
pull from your iTunes library
and the airport. I ended
up with something like 12
or 13 different things that
have IP addresses in the
house. And that was surprising
to me. But then I
realized that, Oh, and the
Vonage, I use Vonage for
my phone. So that was
another thing it starts to
add up at least for
a gadget person. And I
started to realize that different,
there are different interrelationships between
the IP addresses. People really
expected the IP addresses to
stay the same. Well, that
was my next question is,
do you, do you sign
static IP addresses and how
do you resolve DNS and
all that? Right. So I,
I do the, the in
between I do a static
lease, right? So the DHCP
lease is based on the
Mac address. So I rather,
I signed static IPS, but
I assign them based on
Mac address. Okay. So when
it sees my PC, I
always know it'll be.one. That's
just how I've got things
set up. Okay. For me.
Oh yeah. In the baby
room. There's a, there's an
IP camera in the baby
room. So that's another, another
one by, by taking the
moment to assign static IP
addresses. And particularly by doing
them via DHCP lease, not
only does it make things
easier in case name, resolution
fails, I tell that I
don't know why it happens,
but a lot of routers
have a heck of a
time with their, with their
local DNS and the relationship
between the outside and the
inside. So a lot of
times I have trouble addressing
my own machines internally and
I've debugged it over and
over. And just sometimes windows
doesn't understand if you go,
you know, whack a server.
Yeah. Yeah. I have the
same issue. Don't know why
Has it something, something to
do with devices that are
on the wireless network, being
bridged inappropriately with devices that
are on the wired network
and maybe the name I
was losing to that passing
between them. I don't know,
but when those kinds of
things rear their head, I
just make an entry in
the host's file and having
a course of static IP
address and non-moving IP address
makes that a lot easier.
It also makes port forwarding
easier. So when you're designing
your network first, you've got
to figure out what's your
inventory. If you know that
you're only going to have
a certain number of machines
and maybe an occasional machine
from work, you can lock
things down by, by Mac
address and say, not only
will I lock my wireless
down where I only want
to allow these IP addresses,
but I'll only pass out
an IP address via DHCP
to this list of Mac
addresses. You know, it seems
tedious, but once you've got
that catalog, it's kinda nice
to know that that you're
a little bit more locked
down even internally. So once
you've done that inventory of
the devices that you have
in your house, and you're
setting up your IP addresses,
then you can start thinking
about port forwarding. You can
do it yourself, like go
into your router and say,
I want port 80 to
be forwarded over to this
machine. Or you can let
universal plug and play the
automatic Nat stuff, do that.
And so UPNP, some people
have strong feelings about, basically
this is a protocol that
lets devices announced that they
need to bust a hole
in the firewall and it
could be a device. It
could be a piece of
software. So like windows MSN
messenger announces that it needs
a hole plugged in and
popped into the firewall. Your
X-Box will do that more
than you think we'll we'll
do that. So what you
might think about doing is
taking a look at your
router's advanced options and seeing
if there's a place to
view the table, the complete
list of all holes that
have been punched in your
firewall. And then you can
decide whether you want to
punch them or not through
yourself or not. For example,
sometimes I have trouble with
those ports being opened, but
then never closed again by
the there's like a, become
a morgue thread, but they're,
they're harmless it's stuff like
the voiceover IP stuff for
the Xbox. So I just,
you know, just punched that
hole ahead of time and
you won't have to worry
about UPNP that you can
turn it off. So basically
it's like, it's like the
static DHCP stuff. You can
count on the system to
work every time. Or you
can just set it up
ahead of time and be
done with it. So I've
got three or four holes
that are popped in my
firewall for things like when
you and I do a
DNR TV, right. For, for
some voice over IP things
where I'd really rather not
have the, the systems automatically
open ports also that's because
there are a number of
kind of Trojans and things
that will open a firewall
port for you. Right. So
when you have a protocol
standard like that, anyone can
use it. So then they
can punch holes back into
your firewall. Yep. Yep. One
of the things I'm having
trouble with is that I
used to have Comcast and
I could go into my
Comcast over port 80, and
then I could log into
my windows home server home.
Server's got a really great
feature where you can tell
it, give it a, give
it a name, like a
sub, a sub domain name,
and it will automatically give
you an externally addressable URL.
So if I want to
say, see if Hanselman is
available and it'll get, give
me Hanselman dot, whatever food.com
automatically sets it up. I
just associate it with my
passport. And then I have
an externally addressable, Earl, too.
So kind of thing that
we've been doing for a
long time as geeks with
dynamic DNS, Dyn, dns.org, but
you know, to make, to
make an IP address, you
can't count on available from
the outside, except they've built
it into the, the administrative
interface to home server. But
when I switched over from
Comcast to files or Fios
from Verizon, which is what
we use here in the
States, we want fiber optic.
They shut down port 80.
They will not let you
run anything over port 80.
I can run over 80,
80. I can run over
even four 43, but I
can't get anything out over
port 80. It seems kind
of silly that they're going
to shut down 80, but
they'll let me open up
any other port. And even
though the terms of service
say, don't run a, a
server. I just want to
log into my machine and,
you know, administer things remotely.
I discovered this, unfortunately on
a business trip where everything
was set up, we had
just switched over to. So
then I went to Vegas
and I couldn't get back
into my house. So you
might want to think about
what is your strategy for
getting back into your home
in a secure method? There
are things like hamachi H
a M a C H
I hamachi is a, a
VPN client that is a
kind of a peer to
peer VPN open source client
that lets you create a
virtual private network between any
two machines. And it does
all the Nat and network
traversal for you. Basically it
lets you take any two
machines and put them on
a virtual sub-net so that
they could talk directly to
each other. So hamachi is
one way that you could
do that. There's all sorts
of options around VPN. A
lot of the VPN that's
built into the, the routers
that you'll get today. They'll
work just fine with the
basic out of the box
chap and PPTP point to
point tunneling protocols stuff that's
built into windows. So the
question is, you know, how
are you going to get
into your machine? Do you
want it to be, I
want to be on the
same sub-net so I want
to be into my network,
right? Which is different than
I want to control my
machine remotely. So there's a
couple of different things you
might want to think about.
Sometimes people don't like the
idea of having the ability
to get in on the
same subnet. You know, for
example, if I set up
a VPN, someone gets in
using my password, they've got
full reign, right? They might
want to use something like
a go to my PC,
but then you've got full
control over a particular computer.
And then you could potentially
cause havoc that way. So
you want to ask yourself
what, what level of risk
is appropriate? There's also things
like folder share folder share
of course, lets you synchronize
folders between machines and traverses
networks automatically. Right? You got
a question about folder share.
Cause So lets you grab
files remotely. So sometimes all
you need is a file.
So why open up all
those holes when you just
want to, right. Right. We,
we had set up folders
share before and a windows
live messenger then came out
with a folder sharing technology
and I know Microsoft bought
folder share. Is that the
same stuff? Cause it doesn't
seem to work for me.
Yeah. I'm not quite sure.
I, when it came out,
I immediately, He said, Oh
this is clearly photo-sharing technology.
But I thought, you know,
you you're in MSN messenger,
pops up a thing and
says, Carl Franklin wants to have
a sharing folder with you.
And then immediately I said,
Oh good, finally a use
for, for this stuff. But
it never works for me,
frankly. The other thing that
never works for me is
a video conferencing. You know,
when was the last time
you successfully got a video
conference to work over a
messenger for me, it's about
three out of 10. Just
can't seem to get it
to work unless I'm on
the wide open firewall, free
internet. Yeah. If you're going
to do stuff like that,
that's another guy actually a
good, good reason to, to
forward a port and bust
a few holes in your
firewall. If you're going to
be doing video conferencing with
your, with your parents a
lot. Yeah. The, the folder
share stuff built into messenger.
Definitely. It has some problems,
but I believe, and I
do, but I do believe,
yes, it is a, a
Photoshop based technology. Although folder
share works all the time.
Never had a problem with
it either. Yeah. So you
gotta have, so the point
there was ask yourself, what
level of access do I
need back into my own
system from, from outside, if
I'm on the road, if
any, and what do I
want to do about it?
I could leave my firewall
completely locked down and use
something like folder share to
access an occasional file. Certainly
make sure that you have
a really strong password if
you're gonna be using any
kind of remote technology like
this, right? Some people just
port forward, the RDP, the
remote desktop port, or they
use VNC, right? Virtual network
computing that VNC there's about
you use tight VNC, ultra
Ultra VNC. Yeah. But I've
used, I've used a few
different ones. Ultra has the
features that, that I need,
Right. Ultra has the ability
to send a file upload.
You can, auto-scale the graphics,
you can auto scale, the
color depth, any one of
these remote tools or for
something simpler, something like copilot
for occasional control or go
to my PC. Right? Those
are those all, you know,
provide a, an attack vector
on a bit of surface
area. It's being exposed for
the evil people to get
into. So when you're putting
together a home network, you
want to ask yourself, what
is the access that I
require and how can I
make it minimal, but still
functional. Yeah. Same things applies
to things like, am I
going to broadcast my, my
SSI D right. You know,
for awhile I used, my
last name is my assets
ID, but then someone could
potentially be driving down the
street. See my last name,
know that I lived there
and find them, you know,
find the house. Yeah. You
can also use things like,
you know, eight Oh two
dot 11 X and Kerberos
and set up, you know,
certificate based authentication. So you
can go to whatever level
of, of careful that you
want, but don't just turn
on your router and, and
forget about it. Or I
gotta put a little thought
into it. Right. So we've
been talking about wireless, but
here's something that I actually,
I wanted to talk about
early on, but I got
caught up in it all.
I really am a fan
of wired networks. Better performance.
Yeah. Way better. Especially with
gigabit now being so cheap.
Oh, price is coming down.
It's crazy. You want to
find out, can you pull
the Kayla yourself? Are you
building a house? Do you
have walls that you can
get into? Can you bring
a professional cable puller in
best thing I ever did?
And I was a little
expensive. I spent about $1,100
about a thousand dollars, but
I spent that thousand dollars
five ago and I went
and had cable pulled into
every room in the house,
put in very nice plugs
into the wall. Looks like
a phone plug, right? RJ
45. It's just a wider
version of RJ 11. So
people don't look at it
and go, what's that weird
thing on your wall. And
I've got two network ports
in every room in the
house. And this is an
important point when your cable
polar does this stuff and
you start plugging in those
ports, do an actual real
world test. Yes. Before you
bet, before you, before you
pay the guy before you,
yeah. Before you seal up
the walls. Right? So what
we ended up doing was
he wired the whole house.
He did cat five at
the time. I think cat
six is what you want
to do now. I'm not
sure yet. So he did
cat five everywhere in the
house. And then I started
going to each room and
I would watch a video
over the new wired network
and found two rooms where
we were getting bad, basically
bad throughput. Huh? So we
ended up moving some things
around. We had hypothesized that
perhaps we'd moved a cable
by an electrical, you know,
too close to an electrical
outlet. We jiggled some things
around. We moved some things
from side to side. He
had some kind of a
signal sensor that he would
put on both sides. So
then the guy in the
attic move things around and
then we got our full,
you know, nearly saturated. I
think we ended up with
like 60 or 70, cause
you're talking about a hundred
megabit network. Right. But it
saturates somewhere around 60 or
70, you know, with room
for burst. But the difference
is it's the difference between
copying a four gig, you
know, a virtual machine file
and having it take less
than an hour versus having
to take all day. Right?
So if you're moving big
files around, if you're planning
on doing especially streaming of
high definition video, you know,
this sure. It requires huge
amounts of bandwidth. And with
the setup that I already
had with the replay TVs,
which are those, those DVRs,
those are networked and they
let me watch shows that
are on the other. So
I could be taping a
show downstairs, watching it upstairs.
Did you ever have it
find a need for more
than two drops? I did.
Interesting, very good point. So
initially I thought who, who
in the world could need
more than two drops Her
room. Right. But I mean,
if you've got TiVo in
a week, there you go.
So what I ended up
doing was I got these
little adapters from, I think
it was geek. It was
it think geek, right? Geek
toys. One of those geek
websites where it's a, it's
a Y adapter for ethernet
basically uses one of the
unused pairs. You plug it
in to the, to the
wall and it turns your
one port into two. And
then you have to have
an identical adapter on the
other side. So it, a
lot of them, it's like
a $10 thing and it'll
automatically turn one port into
two. That's kind of a
poor man's hub. When it
just, you don't want to
go and plug in a
hub and do all that
for the rooms that I've
got a lot of stuff
in. I ended up indeed
mounting a mounting, a hub
on the wall and doing
it that way. Right. So
yeah, in retrospect, I would
have put in a, probably
better quality wire. I would
have got whatever the top
of the line was at
the time. Cause you only
going to be in your
wall once my neighbor put
in some PVC piping. So
he's got room to pull
more cable if he ever
wanted to. So he could
pull fiber optic if he
felt like it that's something
that I was not clever
enough to do. So if
you are going to open
up a wall or if
you're gonna do it from
the ceiling and pushed down
through the insulation, if you're
in the States and you
have a wood house with
hollow walls, all my friends
from outside the States laugh
at us, what they have,
they have very strong, you
know, brick walls, concrete walls,
right. And they'll just run
a wire and then cover
it with a conduit or
something with a conduit or
something. And then when they,
when they hear that our
houses are made of paper
and we're shoving cables in
the walls through, through blown,
in puffed pink insulation, I
think they think that's pretty
funny. Yeah. So I would
have actually put tubes in
and prepared myself to be
able to pull other cables
in the future. But for
me, the we and the
tablet PC are the only
wireless things I think I
have left. And I, you
know, and I may actually
come up with a way
to, to just turn the
wireless off entirely when I
went, you know, when I
don't need it. Right. Because
I just, I find, I
find the wired, maybe I'm
an old timer, but I
think that there is value
in wired installations, especially when
you're talking about your main
machine. Right? So Scott, I
have this, I'm like, you
probably, you know, I subscribe
to digital cable and I
have this, a Motorola box
cable box. So we've talked
about before that most people
have, and it seems it
does have a network Jack,
but of course there's no
way to use it that
I know of. And it
also has a, a USB
port for external hard drives.
But of course that doesn't
work either. Is there any,
any difference, any change in,
in a technology coming, anything
that you can do? Well,
if you're talking about the,
the Motorola, I think it's
the 65 12, I believe
you're right. This is an
interesting box because every once
in a while, every three
or four months, I'll just
stop by. And this is
weird of me, but I
stopped by my Comcast cable
location. I bring my box
with me and I have
to add this. Isn't really
working very well. And they'll
give me another one. And
it'll say like 65, 14
and it'll have a
slightly different thing going on
in the back. And I've
done a lot of Googling
around about this. It's really
a hardware platform. The Motorola
guys have said, here's a
hardware platform, here's a development
kit. Here's some, some things
like recording services and things
like that, but the hardware
isn't baked in. So there's,
there's the Motorola kind of
reference platform. There's the TiVo
port implementation of, of the
stuff onto the media, under
the Motorola platform, right? There's
also a TV guide implementation.
So they've created this hardware
platform. It's just that whoever's
doing the development. If it's
Comcast or the cable company
or TV guide or whoever
they haven't chosen to exploit
those things personally, I think
it's because they're afraid of
the support. But I, I
suspect with the external hard
drive issue, they're a little
concerned about that. That content
escaping, I personally would love
nothing more than to plug
in a 250 gig, external
hard drive. Cause right now
we've got stuff queuing up,
you know, whole, whole seasons
of Right. It doesn't, you
know, it doesn't take long
for it to fill up,
especially with HD content. Yeah.
I've only got like 17
hours on my little Mueller
roll and it's very frustrating.
I've got a whole season
of Dexter I need to
catch up on, or I'm
gonna lose. I've attempted to
Google anybody. Who's replaced the
hard drive with a bigger
version, but I've heard through
the vine that that sort
of doesn't work. Right. And
then of course, they've got
a, an RJ 45 plug
in the back. Nothing happens
when you plug into it.
Right. The only device that
I've seen that really makes
use of a home networking
is the, is the, the
replay TV, which is largely
considered the beta max of
digital video players. Yeah. The
replay TV would allow you
to stream between rooms and
it would allow also allow
you the, the controversial feature
of sending your show to
a friend this also involved
opening ports. And there was
a website called  P
O O P L. I
haven't checked on lots of
see up. And it's basically
like a Craigslist for shows.
So it would say, Hey,
I didn't see Dexter last
night. Anybody got that? Oh,
I have it. I'll send
it to you. They add
you as a friend and
your friend's list and they
send it to you. And
you're not, it's not a
share. It's not, it's not
as bad as it sounds.
It's not a sharing in
the sense that they'll send
it to you. You can
watch it or deleted. You
can't copy it. Can't do
anything with it. Can't send
it along. So it's not
like Napster. It's just like,
Hey, your friend wants to
share this episode of the
Simpsons with you. I've got
a quick anecdote and then
we'll wrap it up. And
that is, I missed one.
I missed a show on
TV. And so I decided
to go with a BitTorrent
client and find it and
download it. And I did
that. And then I re,
and then about a week
later, the internet went down
and it was down, you
know, I'm used to an
outage for an hour or
two, but when it goes
for a day, I call.
And when I called, I
found out that they saw
that I had downloaded that
they watched me, they watched
my stream. And because, because
that was unauthorized, they fricking
pulled the plug on my
internet service. Same thing happened
to me. We talked about
bit torn a while back.
And I used a bit
torrent to download a show
that I had missed. Right.
I think it was an
episode of heroes. And about
two days later, I got
a letter from the legal
department saying, here's your IP
address? Here's the time you
did it. Here's the show,
knock it off. And that
was the day I stopped.
I was like, you know,
cause lots of people downloaded
stuff on Napster back in
the day back when we
didn't think about it, but
I've gotten so much more
focused on kind of like
intellectual property. If I want
to download, if I want
to. It's interesting. I'm more
concerned about music because I
think it directly affects the
artists. It wasn't something I
hadn't already paid for. I
have cable, it was on
cable. I could have watched
it, but I missed it.
Well, you know, and that's,
and, and totally, I would
definitely would encourage people not
to use their BitTorrent clients
to download TV shows just
because the legal exposure is
too great. I haven't figured
it out yet. I checked
out just today, nbc.com. It's
fantastic. They've got every episode
of heroes, very high quality
video, full screen available for
watching online. And here's the
part that's amazing to me.
Like that's becoming more and
more common. Almost every network
here in the U S
has the shows go online
a couple of days after,
so you can watch them
if you miss them, but
they include like a picture
and picture cast commentary. So
you've got basically two simultaneous
video feeds. And it's interesting.
They've got a button that
says minimize audio. So basically
it lets you turn down
the mix on the main
show and turn up the
mix on the commentary. And
they've got like the director
of the writer and the
producer sitting in a chair,
watching the show with you
and explaining what's going on,
just like DVDs. So stuff
like that when they make
it easy for me and
they provide extras that are
as good or better than
a DVD. I mean, it's
not just commentary, but it's
actual video commentary of them
talking. Yeah. Then I'll be
much less likely to go
and try to hunt for
something on online via, via
bit torn. All right, Scott.
Well, I think that's, It's
about covers everything I can
think of in home networks
In conclusion. Think about pulling
cable. If you can understand
what your requirements are, consider
doing a static DHCP leases,
be aware of what ports
are busted open in your
firewall. If any, consider turning
off UPNP. If you think
you can get away with
it, don't broadcast your wireless
SSI D and also consider
your wireless security options. And
then, and then think about
how you're going to get
back into your house if
you're away, whether it be
something like a remote control
piece of software or a
VPN or a private network,
like a hamachi. Wow. Awesome.
And with that, we'll talk
to you later, Scott. Thanks.
And we'll see you next
week on handsome minutes. .